# CIS Control 14: Security Awareness and Skills Training

Establish and maintain a security awareness program to influence
behavior among the workforce to be security conscious and properly
skilled to reduce cybersecurity risks to the enterprise.

**Why is this CIS Control Critical?**

The actions of people play a critical part in the success or failure of
an enterprise's security program. It is easier for an attacker to entice
a user to click a link or open an email attachment to install malware in
order to get into an enterprise, than to find a network exploit to do it
directly.

Users themselves, both intentionally and unintentionally, can cause
incidents as a result of mishandling sensitive data, sending an email
with sensitive data to the wrong recipient, losing a portable end-user
device, using weak passwords, or using the same password they use on
public sites.

No security program can effectively address cyber risk without a means
to address this fundamental human vulnerability. Users at every level of
the enterprise have different risks. For example: executives manage more
sensitive data; system administrators have the ability to control access
to systems and applications; and users in finance, human resources, and
contracts all have access to different types of sensitive data that can
make them targets.

The training should be updated regularly. This will increase the culture
of security and discourage risky workarounds.

::: {#toc-control-14 .toctree maxdepth="1"}
14.1: Establish and Maintain a Security Awareness Program
\<control-14.1\> 14.2: Train Workforce Members to Recognize Social
Engineering Attacks \<control-14.2\> 14.3: Train Workforce Members on
Authentication Best Practices \<control-14.3\> 14.4: Train Workforce on
Data Handling Best Practices \<control-14.4\> 14.5: Train Workforce
Members on Causes of Unintentional Data Exposure \<control-14.5\> 14.6:
Train Workforce Members on Recognizing and Reporting Security Incidents
\<control-14.6\> 14.7: Train Workforce on How to Identify and Report if
Their Enterprise Assets are Missing Security Updates \<control-14.7\>
14.8: Train Workforce on the Dangers of Connecting to and Transmitting
Enterprise Data Over Insecure Networks \<control-14.8\> 14.9: Conduct
Role-Specific Security Awareness and Skills Training \<control-14.9\>
:::
