# CIS Control 9: Email and Web Browser Protections

Improve protections and detections of threats from email and web
vectors, as these are opportunities for attackers to manipulate human
behavior through direct engagement.

**Why is this CIS Control Critical?**

Web browsers and email clients are very common points of entry for
attackers because of their direct interaction with users inside an
enterprise. Content can be crafted to entice or spoof users into
disclosing credentials, providing sensitive data, or providing an open
channel to allow attackers to gain access, thus increasing risk to the
enterprise. Since email and web are the main means that users interact
with external and untrusted users and environments, these are prime
targets for both malicious code and social engineering. Additionally, as
enterprises move to web-based email, or mobile email access, users no
longer use traditional full-featured email clients, which provide
embedded security controls like connection encryption, strong
authentication, and phishing reporting buttons.

::: {#toc-control-9 .toctree maxdepth="1"}
9.1: Ensure Use of Only Fully Supported Browsers and Email Clients
\<control-9.1\> 9.2: Use DNS Filtering Services \<control-9.2\> 9.3:
Maintain and Enforce Network-Based URL Filters \<control-9.3\> 9.4:
Restrict Unnecessary or Unauthorized Browser and Email Client Extensions
\<control-9.4\> 9.5: Implement DMARC \<control-9.5\> 9.6: Block
Unnecessary File Types \<control-9.6\> 9.7: Deploy and Maintain Email
Server Anti-Malware Protections \<control-9.7\>
:::
