# CIS Control 17: Incident Response Management

Establish a program to develop and maintain an incident response
capability (e.g., policies, plans, procedures, defined roles, training,
and communications) to prepare, detect, and quickly respond to an
attack.

**Why is this CIS Control Critical?**

A comprehensive cybersecurity program includes protections, detections,
response, and recovery capabilities. Often, the final two get overlooked
in immature enterprises, or the response technique to compromised
systems is just to re-image them to original state, and move on. The
primary goal of incident response is to identify threats on the
enterprise, respond to them before they can spread, and remediate them
before they can cause harm. Without understanding the full scope of an
incident, how it happened, and what can be done to prevent it from
happening again, defenders will just be in a perpetual "whack-a-mole"
pattern.

We cannot expect our protections to be effective 100% of the time. When
an incident occurs, if an enterprise does not have a documented plan --
even with good people -- it is almost impossible to know the right
investigative procedures, reporting, data collection, management
responsibility, legal protocols, and communications strategy that will
allow the enterprise to successfully understand, manage, and recover.

Along with detection, containment, and eradication, communication to
stakeholders is key. If we are to reduce the probability of material
impact due to a cyber event, the enterprise's leadership must know what
potential impact there could be, so that they can help prioritize
remediation or restoration decisions that best support the enterprise.
These business decisions could be based on regulatory compliance,
disclosure rules, service-level agreements with partners or customers,
revenue, or mission impacts.

Dwell time from when an attack happens to when it is identified can be
days, weeks, or months. The longer the attacker is in the enterprise's
infrastructure, the more embedded they become and they will develop more
ways to maintain persistent access for when they are eventually
discovered. With the rise of ransomware, which is a stable moneymaker
for attackers, this dwell time is critical, especially with modern
tactics of stealing data before encrypting it for ransom.

::: {#toc-control-17 .toctree maxdepth="1"}
17.1: Designate Personnel to Manage Incident Handling \<control-17.1\>
17.2: Establish and Maintain Contact Information for Reporting Security
Incidents \<control-17.2\> 17.3: Establish and Maintain an Enterprise
Process for Reporting Incidents \<control-17.3\> 17.4: Establish and
Maintain an Incident Response Process \<control-17.4\> 17.5: Assign Key
Roles and Responsibilities \<control-17.5\> 17.6: Define Mechanisms for
Communicating During Incident Response \<control-17.6\> 17.7: Conduct
Routine Incident Response Exercises \<control-17.7\> 17.8: Conduct
Post-Incident Reviews \<control-17.8\> 17.9: Establish and Maintain
Security Incident Thresholds \<control-17.9\>
:::
