CIS Control 4: Secure Configuration of Enterprise Assets and Software
==========================================================

Establish and maintain the secure configuration of enterprise assets
(end-user devices, including portable and mobile; network devices;
non-computing/IoT devices; and servers) and software (operating systems
and applications).

**Why is this CIS Control Critical?**

As delivered from manufacturers and resellers, the default
configurations for enterprise assets and software are normally geared
towards ease-of-deployment and ease-of-use rather than security. Basic
controls, open services and ports, default accounts or passwords,
pre-configured Domain Name System (DNS) settings, older (vulnerable)
protocols, and pre-installation of unnecessary software can all be
exploitable if left in their default state. Further, these security
configuration updates need to be managed and maintained over the life
cycle of enterprise assets and software. Configuration updates need to
be tracked and approved through configuration management workflow
process to maintain a record that can be reviewed for compliance,
leveraged for incident response, and to support audits. This CIS Control
is important to on-premises devices, as well as remote devices, network
devices, and cloud environments.

Service providers play a key role in modern infrastructures, especially
for smaller enterprises. They often are not set up by default in the
most secure configuration to provide flexibility for their customers to
apply their own security policies. Therefore, the presence of default
accounts or passwords, excessive access, or unnecessary services are
common in default configurations. These could introduce weaknesses that
are under the responsibility of the enterprise that is using the
software, rather than the service provider. This extends to ongoing
management and updates, as some Platform as a Service (PaaS) only extend
to the operating system, so patching and updating hosted applications
are under the responsibility of the enterprise.

Even after a strong initial configuration is developed and applied, it
must be continually managed to avoid degrading security as software is
updated or patched, new security vulnerabilities are reported, and
configurations are "tweaked," to allow the installation of new software
or to support new operational requirements.

::: {#toc-control-4 .toctree maxdepth="1"}
4.1: Establish and Maintain a Secure Configuration Process
\<control-4.1\> 4.2: Establish and Maintain a Secure Configuration
Process for Network Infrastructure \<control-4.2\> 4.3: Configure
Automatic Session Locking on Enterprise Assets \<control-4.3\> 4.4:
Implement and Manage a Firewall on Servers \<control-4.4\> 4.5:
Implement and Manage a Firewall on End-User Devices \<control-4.5\> 4.6:
Securely Manage Enterprise Assets and Software \<control-4.6\> 4.7:
Manage Default Accounts on Enterprise Assets and Software
\<control-4.7\> 4.8: Uninstall or Disable Unnecessary Services on
Enterprise Assets and Software \<control-4.8\> 4.9: Configure Trusted
DNS Servers on Enterprise Assets \<control-4.9\> 4.10: Enforce Automatic
Device Lockout on Portable End-User Devices \<control-4.10\> 4.11:
Enforce Remote Wipe Capability on Portable End-User Devices
\<control-4.11\> 4.12: Separate Enterprise Workspaces on Mobile End-User
Devices \<control-4.12\>
:::
