# CIS Control 10: Malware Defenses

Prevent or control the installation, spread, and execution of malicious
applications, code, or scripts on enterprise assets.

**Why is this CIS Control Critical?**

Malicious software (sometimes categorized as viruses or Trojans) is an
integral and dangerous aspect of internet threats. They can have many
purposes, from capturing credentials, stealing data, identifying other
targets within the network, and encrypting or destroying data. Malware
is ever-evolving and adaptive, as modern variants leverage machine
learning techniques.

Malware enters an enterprise through vulnerabilities within the
enterprise on end-user devices, email attachments, webpages, cloud
services, mobile devices, and removable media. Malware often relies on
insecure end-user behavior, such as clicking links, opening attachments,
installing software or profiles, or inserting Universal Serial Bus (USB)
flash drives. Modern malware is designed to avoid, deceive, or disable
defenses.

Malware defenses must be able to operate in this dynamic environment
through automation, timely and rapid updating, and integration with
other processes like vulnerability management and incident response.
They must be deployed at all possible entry points and enterprise assets
to detect, prevent spread, or control the execution of malicious
software or code.

::: {#toc-control-10 .toctree maxdepth="1"}
10.1: Deploy and Maintain Anti-Malware Software \<control-10.1\> 10.2:
Configure Automatic Anti-Malware Signature Updates \<control-10.2\>
10.3: Disable Autorun and Autoplay for Removable Media \<control-10.3\>
10.4: Configure Automatic Anti-Malware Scanning of Removable Media
\<control-10.4\> 10.5: Enable Anti-Exploitation Features
\<control-10.5\> 10.6: Centrally Manage Anti-Malware Software
\<control-10.6\> 10.7: Use Behavior-Based Anti-Malware Software
\<control-10.7\>
:::
