# CIS Control 15: Service Provider Management

Develop a process to evaluate service providers who hold sensitive data,
or are responsible for an enterprise's critical IT platforms or
processes to ensure these providers are protecting those platforms and
data appropriately.

**Why is this CIS Control Critical?**

In our modern, connected world, enterprises rely on vendors and partners
to help manage their data or rely on third-party infrastructure for core
applications or functions.

There have been numerous examples where third-party breaches have
significantly impacted an enterprise; for example, as early as the late
2000s, payment cards were compromised after attackers infiltrated
smaller third-party vendors in the retail industry. More recent examples
include ransomware attacks that impact an enterprise indirectly due to
one of its service providers being locked down, causing disruption to
business. Or worse, if directly connected, a ransomware attack could
encrypt data on the main enterprise.

Most data security and privacy regulations require their protection
extend to third-party service providers, such as Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Business Associate agreements
in healthcare, Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
(FFIEC) requirements for the financial industry and the United Kingdom
(U.K.) Cyber Essentials. Third-party trust is a core Governance Risk and
Compliance (GRC) function, as risks that are not managed within the
enterprise is transferred to entities outside the enterprise.

While reviewing the security of third parties has been a task performed
for decades, there is no universal standard for assessing security;
and many service providers are being audited by their customers
multiple times a month, causing impacts on their own productivity. This
is because every enterprise has a different "checklist" or set of
standards to grade the service provider. There are only a few industry
standards, such as in finance, with the Shared Assessments program, or
in higher education, with their Higher Education Community Vendor
Assessment Toolkit (HECVAT). Insurance companies selling cybersecurity
policies also have their own measurements.

While an enterprise might put a lot of scrutiny into large cloud or
application hosting companies because they are hosting their email or
critical business applications, smaller firms are often a greater risk.
Oftentimes, a third-party service provider contracts with additional
parties to provide other plugins or services, such as when a third-party
uses a fourth-party platform or product to support the main enterprise.
